# 30 MFF WEB SITE

## Instead, Together We Can Distant Socialize

For this project, I have developed a website using html5, css and javascript for the first time. This is an introduction website of a 2 minutes short film titled "Instead, Distant Socialize", which is a video about breaking the physical barrier and having fun with friends. Apart from introducing film to the users, this website is has a bigger cause; to encourage website users to stay connected, socialize safely and have some jolly moments with creativite methods, despite the current situation of having to do social distancing and staying at home for the most of our time.

As soon as I got an assignment to build a website, my first instinct was to design and add contents to the website by scripting codes directly on the software. However, during the class I was introduced with a process called wireframing, which is a process to establish the basic structure of a page before visual design and content is added. So I started with wireframing. I first brainstromed about the concept and the theme of the website based on its purpose, and I started to sketch out structures on the paper. I have used websites numerous times, but since there is no "one" format for the website and because I never developed website by myself before, I couldn't structure the film website on top of my head. So I visited multiple websites that introduces film. Each website was unique in their design, but the basic structure was that there is a navigation bar on top followed by contents, and there is a footer with contacts on the botoom. Following this basic structure, I sketched the structures on the paper, and digitalized the wireframe using Adobe XD. I structured my website with four pages in total; the main homepage, cast&crew page, reviews page and the interactive page where users get to learn how to edit a video like the film. Even though it seemed like an extra work in the beginning, taking time to brainstrom and wireframing the website in fact helped me a lot during the process of designing and scripting website because I had a visual reference to keep stay on track, and to make sure multiple pages are talking to one another and share certain design format that makes all of them to be a one website.

As visitors visit the webiste, I wanted to make sure the cause of this website is conveyed because i wanted viewers to take time to interpret and digest the message that i want to share before they actually get to see the film. Therefore, as visitors enter the main page of the webiste, on the screen, the first thing they see is carrousel of images from the film with a header on top of the image that says " Instead, together we Distant Socialize". The image carrousels are activated with java script. I used java script to have three different images played in a caroussel with 3 seconds interval. To prevent the potential miscommunication of visitors not knowing that this is a film website, I used black/dark gradients to conceptualize the cinematic experience. I used the black background colors for the Top navigation bar and the footer section. I have also reduced the brightness of the images on the carousel. This dark and dim tone of the page with moving images on the background, despite not having the actual film screening on the first page,it immediatly sets a cinematic tone and encourages visitors to think this website to be something related to film, and as they read the icons on the top navigation bar; Home, Film, Cast&Crew and Review, they can cofirm that it is a film website.

By having the srcoll bar on the side and the white space underneath the carousel images, I indicated that there are more contents down below. As users scroll down, they reach the second section of the homepage, which is the film on the left with the control button, and the description of the film on its right. Originally, the thumbnail of the video file was pitch black image, but I have added the "poster" to this video, an image that has all the casts in. This is to show a glimpse of the film, before the visitors actually click and start watching the video. On the right handside, there is a description of the film; the title, the released date, a quote, and a short explanation of the motive of this film. The quote in the grey boxis written there to strenghten the message of the film. However, with no action, the sentence is incomplete, but as users hover the mouse on the grey box, the complete sentnece appears, which completes the quote and also impreses users with a powerful message.

When scroll down a little bit more, users are introduced with the three column boxes with visual descripton of different pages of this website, with a 'click' link button that encourages an action from the viewers. The column boxs are filled with a beautiful gradients of color, each with different colors, blue, red and yellow, which corresponds to the color of the website logo, that is found on the top-left of the page. I have created simple yet colorful and joyful logo with initial of the film title IDS using a photoshop. Such color imagery and repetition in the website, the logo and the colors of the column boxes maybe subtle and not readily noticed by the visitors, yet it helps in capturing the colorful and joyful tone of the website on the back of the users mind unconsciously.

The contact section in the bottom, which can be also reached by clicking contact button on the top navigation bar, has multiple source of contacts. As visitors click the email button, it will directly open up their mail box with the receiptant wrtten on the page. Similarly, the social media icons are clickable, and it will direct users to the according webpage. This interaction is made to support the theme of "connection", allowing visitors to virtually connect with the creator of this website.

There is a couple of ways to reach other pages of the website. First way is by clicking icons on the top navigation box and another way is by clicking the "click" button on the column box section. Either way, by clicking icons, viewers will reach to another page. All the pages have top-navigation bar on top, so the users can always go back go homepage or different pages of the website, wherever they are.

The film page is a page where visitors can view the full-length film. I have designed the page in a way that film is played automatically. I made it play automatic to grab visitors' attention with the backgorund music that plays along with the film as soon as they visits "film" page of this website. But I have added control webkit line so if that visitors control the film. With this control webkit, viewers can adjjust the volume of souund, move 15 seconds forward or backwards, as well as pause or re-start the film. Another interactivity that I embed on this page with a java-script is "Watch in full screen" action. On the top navigation bar, there is a gold button with a text "Full Screen". Once the viewer click this button, they will be able to watch the film in full screen. The java script is set to function set full screen mode of the assigned video, when the "full screen" button is clicked.

The Cast&Crew page introduces the 4 casts and crews of the film. The page is structured with top navigation and four equal boxes of images(black and white) of the casts with their name. As the user hovers mouse on the image of a cast, that image will change to the circular color image of a cast with the general description of them. The description text includes the name,role, age, home, and their favourite quote. The hover image of casts are cropped into the circle shape to semiotically represent the feeling of "spotlight" on the stage in real life.

The review page, like all the other pages also has a top navigation bar on top and the place where visitors can read others' reveiws and write their own reviews as well. On the left side of the page, there are reviews of other people. These reviews are represented in a slideshow model, which users can click the arrow buttons on the side of the image to flip through the reviewers and read different reviewers' reviews. There are dots underneath the image to help them navitage through the reveiwers. On the right side, there is a review box, where viewers can type-in their own reviews.

Overall, through this project I had learned a lot on how encode my design on head to written script using html/css/javascript languages. Since I made the website from the scratch, for every step that I take, it took me a long time to learn how to communicate with the computer. The simple idea such as 'if the mouse hovers on certain button, the color will change' may be simple on head, but to actually make it happen on the digital based website, there were much more things that I had to take in consideration since computer only understand certain script languages. Once I leanrt how to do simple things like positioning texts in certain way, I tried to upgrade it by adding designs and interactivity to the content. live feedback. For my future project, I would like to learn how to add this element in the website.

To conclude, I am very satisfied with my project because there are a lot of interactive elements in the website such as hover, ghost text, click, caroussel element and etcetera. Since each designs and event listner elemnts required a careful decision and consideration thinking from the user experience, so the process was like nurturing a children, starting from something small to develop it into a better project. Thanks to the wireframing, I was able to create 4 different pages that are unique in their own ways, but also has an overarching theme and they interact well with one another.

One thing that I would like to improve on is the comment submit box. I wanted it to be "live" interaction as in once the visitor fill out the comment box and "submit" their comment, it will appear on the website. In this way, the viewers can feel they are part of the community and have some sense of authorship as well. However, given the stage of my coding skill, I didn't know how to script it to have a live feedback. Another alternative would be have it submitted to my email box, so the website owner, myself can choose what reivews to be uploaded to control the quality of the content.

Another issue that on Chrome, the structure of "footer" area is distorted, while it works fine on Safari. When I was developing the website, I used safari as a reference browser, so I just found out this problem at the end of web-development. Since I want mywebsite to be an inclusive for al the users, whether they are using Chrome or Safari, I would like to learn how to develop a webpage that is coherent in all different browsers.

# COMIX STRIP

## Sometimes Life is Unpredictable

Github repository:https://github.com/hasin-shabbir/comicStrip Website:https://hasin-shabbir.github.io/comicStrip/

That person you just bumped into maybe your future fiance. The traffic jam that got you to miss your flight may happend to save your life as original plane got crashed unfortunatley. This not to scare you or anything, but sometimes life is just unpredictable.

There has always been an element of unpredictability in our lives but especially more so in the last few months due to the unprecedented global pandamic. Weddings had to be postponded without a promise, schools had to be closed, countless "plans" have gone messed up. Living in such time of uncertainty can be scary and frustrating that we often trap ourselves into a pessimistic thoughts; there is no good future ahead of us. Often times, we just don't understand why this thing is happening and sometimes it seems like there is no good will in what is happening around us.

However, as Steve Jobs famously qutoes,

"You can't connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future."

we may not know our future and looking forward, we don't know how all these things that are happening around us will make an impact in our future, but looking backward, we will be able to connect how our daily decisions, choices and happenings have brought you to who you are now.

This web-based interactive comic piece visually, narratively and through the user experience it communicates the message explained above. Unlike conventional hardcopy comics where users are passively informed with a story provided by the producer, this web based comic piece, creatively using the advantage of the interactive properties of digital website, is allows users to actively participate in creating a story. To briefly explain how it works, for each frame, users are given two objects (or actions) to choose from, and the following story would unfold according to their decisions. Therefore, users have some agency of "making a choice" and to have some control over a story, but not entirely - just like how we only have some controls over our lives.

This is a 6 panel short comic short comic, with only panel shown at a time. Unlike how it would be be possible for users jump from the first scnene to the last scene in conventional comic books (all six frames were illustrated in one page) and make understanding of the overall storyline at one sight, in this interactive web comic, users are guided to read read one frame after another, not knowing the conclusion until they have read everything and reached the conclusion. This specific process of reading is designed to convey albiet subconsciously, the message that "dots are connected only when looking backwards". The basic storyline of this comic is the memory of my job interview day. With this element of memory and using first person perspective pronouns like "I", users themselves become a protagonist, reading it with some kind of self-reflection.

In terms of work division and work process, Amina and I mainly worked on the illustration, conceptualization and design aspects of the comics and the website, and Hasin and Ayesha focused on the physical coding aspects.

Based on Amina's suggestion on the theme "memory" and Hasin's suggestion of having an element of "choice" in the comic, I took in charge in developing a storyline. Despite it was only 6 panels short comic, to develop a stroyline that has an element of choice was much more complicated. The choices had to lead to certain variations, yet still had to come back to general narrative with have similar consequence, so that they can be reconciled in the following frames. If not the number of frames would multiple by itself and become too many for the scope of this exercise. Also, reflecting on the message/theme of this project that ends with a positive note, I wanted to make sure there are challenges and variations in process, but in the end, it all comes to a similar positive consequence. In order to achieve this narrative structure, when developing a stroyline, I always had to think at least two panels ahead.

I proposed two storylines to the group; "a memory of first time popping a pop-corn" and "a memory of the day that I had a job interview", which we decided as a group to work on the second one, the job interview. In following days, based on the comments from the professor, I added more "unexpected" and "surprise" elements on the plotline. For example, on the first scene, originally, the choice "umbrella" led to a "rainy day". Instead, I twisted to have a choice "umbrella" lead to the narrative of "snowy day" and "I" use umbrella instead of avoiding rain, I use it as a ski pole to dashing through the icy road. An alternative option for umbrella, the yogamat, ironically leads to a rainy day but "I" still make use of waterproof yogamat to avoid rain. Another twist is the element of "crush". Unlike how most of the melodrama style comic that would lead "crush" element to a love story, in this story, crush ends up being merely "used" by the protagonist in the process of swapping T-shirts.

Other than the structure and user experiences, we also payed a detailed attention in visual designs to support and conceptualize the theme. The word "elbatciderpnu" for the title on the landing page is written flipped; to highlight the sense of unpredictability. When users click the icon, instead of simply moving on to next page, it dissolves to the next frame, which makes a visual analyogy of a memory resurrection. The icons are animated to be also pulsing and its colors change from b/w to colors to get attention from the users.

Instead of making a realistic illustration of a character, it is designed symbolically with its identity neutralized. This neutralized identification allows all users with different sex, nationality or ethnicity to be able to relate with the character and put themselves as a protagonist in the narrative. The same effort was made in voice as well. When the users click on the character, it makes a sound. Even though it is recorded by me, a female figure, it is also recorded in a tone that does not explicitely identify with a female voice.

The contrast of black and white from the colored character allows viewers to give full attention to the character despite its simplified illustration. For the background illustration, I used real-life photo of a physical space and used image editing software to cartoonize image followed by adjusting the saturation to make it b/w. Then I used Adobe illustration on my ipad to hand-draw character on the background image, but on the differen layers. For each drawings; bubble text box, character, and motion effects or the symbols, they were drawn on the separate layers so that later the animation can be added easily as SVG files. The drawings are colored with pastel-tone colors and outlined with darker colors to make it more vivid and clear.

Communication, trust and felxibility were key for this group project. As we work remotely yet, simultaneously on the same project, we had to actively communicate with one another to make sure we each of our works are weaved together coherently and strenthen the theme and the message of our comic. We also stratigically divided works so that individuals can focus on certain things but also work together when needed.

Overall, I am very happy that we were able to collaborate harmoniously, each of our uique talents contributed to strengthend the project.

One thing that I would like to improve on is the ending page. We planned to have a separate ending page with steve job's quote mentioned earlier. This was to highlight and provide a room for viewers to reflect on the concept of "we can only connect the dots looking backwards" as an ending note. However, due to time limitation, we had to end the page on the 6th panel and just add button to start over.

For my next projecct I would like to work more on the coding aspect. For this project, I have mainly focused on the conceptual,visual illustration and sound aspect but not so much on the physical coding part.

# Sound Project

## Hear Our Spirit

### Github repository: https://github.com/Soojin-Lee0819/soundproject2 
### Website:https://soojin-lee0819.github.io/soundproject2/


# Vido Project

## Self Care Perspectives On How To 

Github Repository: https://aisahodzic.github.io/Video%20Project/mainPage.html
Website: https://aisahodzic.github.io/Video%20Project/index.html

### Project Description:

The project is meant to encourage the self-care practices, normalize atypical ways of self-care other than "meditation", and to inspire users to find out what self-care works for them by introducing users with different methods of self-care. Although selfcare is a necessary human routine, 21st century young adults like us often negelcts taking care of ourselves with excuses ranging from having no time, don't know how to, or simply many of us view slef-care as a luxury and burden . However should be a priority since practicing selfcare prevents us from feeling overwhelmed, tired and it will better prepare us to handle life's inevitable challenges and equip us to live our best life. We want to share the message that self care is important; especially in this time where we spend the most time with ourselves. How we take care of self can look very different from one another and what is important is to find out what works best for ourselves. Therefore, through this project, we aim to introduce viewers with different domains of self-care, which includes physical, mental, and emotional self-care. We did not focus much on physical social self-care since in this midst of pandamic, such recommmendation may not be applicable for everyone. We believe that this website can be useful and helpful for everyone regardless of their age, race or sexuality, but one of our main target is our peer collegues, especially in this timme of academic year since many of us are burnt out with academic works or going through different personal challenges. However, we did not focus on 'how to overcome the difficulties or stress' but more on 'how to take a good care of self' since slef-care doesn't need practiced as a "stress relief" only when you are stressed; it can be practiced even when you are doing just fine. 
 

The website can be considered as a full packaged self-care experience. It is not only about watching a video on how to self-care but starting from doing a survey, followed by watching a recommended video, and finally making a DIY self-care Kit, through the entire span of time viewers are on the on website, they are constantly reminded that they are worth valued and cared. Once viewers land on the the website, we hoped them to immediatly feel comfortable, cozy, and relaxed that we carefully selected pastel-toned soft colors and used round shapes. Three colors - pink, green, and brown - are repetitively used throughout the website whether it be background color, texts, or a button; which also match with the colors of the logo to have a consistency. On to this calm tone, we added animated pink bubble in the background to add some playfulness; ingriguing visitors' curiosity and exicte themto embark the journey. 

Before watching a video, visitors are first asked to go through a simple survey on how much time they have to take care of themselves; by giving them a variety of option that ranges from 20 minutes to a full week, we hoped to be inclusive and meet different preferences. Based on their choice, visitors are introduced with one of the four videos, which all of them feature interesting self-care routines that follows three steps; first 'clear your mind', second 'treat yourself', and third 'go out'. Four videos follow the big guideline, but each of them are unique and charming in its own ways that it doesn't feel repetetive at all. While watching the video we hope that viewers not only realize that self-care can be really simple and there are so many creative ways to practice self care. Apart from this, we sincirely wanted viewers to also simply have a moment to relax and smile while watching irresistably cute stop-motion videos of animated objects. We personified objects(a banana, a mug, a clip, and a boot), and represented them as a character to emphasize the message of unconventional way of self-care but also by totally subverting the notion of who takes care one self, that are not a specific type of person, we wanted to make self-care approachable and relatable for everyone. 

Once the viewers finished watching the recommended video, theycan either explore more self-care routines or go to make DIY self-care kit. Viewers are invited to select what self-care kit they want us to send them. By doing so, they can have a moment of reflection on what kind of self-care they want. By sending them a DIY kit and we wanted to remind them and encourage them to actually practice it. 

About-Us page for this website if unique and really fun to read. Unlike a conventional "About Us page", we introduce ourselves with our atypical or go-to self-care routines. Since we hoped this platform to be as inspirational as possible and wanted to connect to viewers in personal level, we decided to share our unusual self-care routines. 

### Process:

The idea started from wanting to normalize the practice of self-care. On our first meeting, we decided that we want to make a make a stop-motion video. On to this broad idea, we started to brainstorm on details. Many ideas were pitched such as providing a personalized self-care kit, having a survey section that collect customer preferences, recommending the best-fit self-care routine based on their survey and more. Then, taking consideration of the scope of this project, we discussed how onwe are actually going to implement this. In terms of video, as we wanted to recommend different types of self-care practices and since all of us were in different geographical location, it made sense for each of us to make make four shorts videos that are linearlly moved forward but ideologically communicates a bigger meaning.

We started with writing down all the ideas on selfcare, whether it be commonly practiced ones or the unconventional ones. Once we collected enough ideas, we observed the trend and categorized selfcare routines in three steps; 1. clear your mind 2. treat yourself and 3. go out. As we decided that the survey is going to be about asking viewers how much time they have for self care, we also categorized them based on how long it takes; 20 minutes, 2 hours, a day, and the weekend+. We made a table on these two categoreis and finalized what self-care routines we want to make a video about. 

Each of us took in charge of one time scale and, chose an obejctstarted filming a stop-motion. We all used an application called "Stop Motion". Since filmming a stop motion was a new experience for all of us, we first shot a 3 seconds trial video and discussed on the general composition, mise-en-scene and the rhythm of the video. As we film, we kept on continuously shared the progress and comments on each others' work. By doing so, we were able to build a better cohesive structure for the film, such as all four videos start with an introduction of an object that are followed by three steps on how to self-care. The process of filmming a stop motion was much more time consuming than expected, especially since we personified objects, we also had to set the stage. When it comes to setting a stage, we tried to make a best use of the props available around us and be creative. In some scenes, we made a stage by painting on the paper, or building a lego house, while in some other scenes, we used a real-life nature as a stage. 

Once all the stop-motion videos were filmed, we recorded voice overs. Similarly, we constantly shared progress and gave each other feedback to make sure the tone and style of the voice match among four of us. We also made sure there are some structure in the voiceover to have a format consistency; all four videos end with "this was muggy/nana/clippie/Buckle 's selfcare". 

We then divided workloads; Shreya and I focused on editing film while and Hessa and Aisa focused on developing the webiste. I worked closely with Shreya and actively communicated on editing style and what effects to use for transitions. It was not easy to find a background music taht works well for all four videos but we managed to find a soft, calming but also playful background music that works perfectly for our project. We paid attention to details like having a gradation on the exposition and ending scene, trying out different fonts and also re-edited each others work once we have finished our parts. 


On the last few days, we focused on the websites. We made minor changes like the composition of images for DIY self-care kit, uploading videos on VIMEO and choose a better thumbnail image, re-adjusting wordings and design of the buttons. 



### Reflection & Evaluation: 

I had a lot of fun working on this project, especially since I am passionate about sharing self-care practices. I am a firm believer that self-care can bring so many benefits that I was really excited to make a video and website that normalize the practice of self-care. One thing that I would like to appreciate working with three other members is that the communication between us were very efficient, active and fully involved. Through this active communication, we were able to give each other constructive feedback and make improvements and changes if necessary. In the beginning, we struggled a little bit on coming up with structured plan on how to deliver the quality content that addresses self-care. We satarted with a few ideas on mind, without necessarily having a concrete structure, but as we move along, the concept naturally became much more concrete. Overall, I am very happy with the outcome and I think the project resonates my personality greatly. In future, I would like to make another stop motion video since I have realized the potential in stop motion that has so much application. One thing that I would improve on this project is the composition of images on DIY Kit page. Although we have improved a lot from the first design, I feel like the page is too busy and by compositioning images in different style, it can make the page to look much less busy. 
